Runway
v6.268.1
Home
Catalog
Create/Import
Access Control
Settings
Documentation
Runway Documentation

Runway Documentation
Component

runway
Owner

runway
Lifecycle

production

Source
Search runway docs
​
Skip to content
Runway Documentation
Legacy Runway Docs
Home
Local Development
Contributing to Runway
Tutorials
CLI
Runway Ecosystem
Runway KPaaS Shared Clusters
Getting Started
Change Management
Create a Kubernetes Namespace
Kubernetes Environment Information
Created apps
Log Management
Webapp
Conductor
Ephemeral Environments
How to simulate a disaster scenario
Containerized Workload Security Hardening
Automated App Removal - Cause and Debugging
KPaaS charge back
Akamai Edge Caching
Istio mesh migration
Cast AI workload rightsizing
How to Sync webapp from ADO to GitHub
Creating an app
Catalog
Access Control
Tech Docs
Github Copilot
Templates
Common Errors
Quick Links
Mini Hangar Content
Runway Squad Docs
Tower API
Runway Docs Beta
Table of contents
Support
Onboarding
Responsibilities
Definitions
On-Prem Environment
Architecture Overview
KPaaS Architecture Overview
Application Deployment using Runway
KPaaS Components
Roadmap
Q2 2024
Q3 2024
Runway Documentation Update
Please note that the Runway team is currently working on updating our documentation experience. More information will be provided as we work through the updates.

Kubernetes Platform as a Service¶
Kubernetes Platform as a Service (KPaaS) is an internal cloud computing solution that delivers managed compute resources for containerized applications. It leverages Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) within our infrastructure and is facilitated by our internal development portal, Runway. KPaaS abstracts away the complexities of infrastructure management, providing developers with a streamlined platform to deploy, manage, and scale their containerized applications efficiently. By utilizing KPaaS, teams can focus on application development and less on managing the underlying infrastructure, resulting in improved productivity and faster time-to-market for our products.

Support¶
For all production and urgent issues, please reach out to GSC to open a ticket and page the Kubernetes-as-a-Service_(KaaS) group via xMatters.

For all other support requests and questions, please make a post on the #runway-kpaas-support channel on Slack. Please provide as much information as possible, including the relevant cluster and namespace. The Slack channel is only monitored during business hours. You can expect a response within two hours of posting your issue or question. Please follow Slack best practices - use threads for communication, avoid posting threaded messages to the main channel in most cases, and avoid tagging @here or @channel.

Onboarding¶
Onboarding to the KPaaS clusters is done via Runway through the Create and Import Plugin. This documentation provides step-by-step information on how to create an app, which can also be used to deploy an existing image.

Responsibilities¶
This chart describes the responsibilities of the platform (KPaaS) team and the application team, indicating who is Responsible, Accountable, Consulted, and Informed for each item.

Item	Platform Team	Application Team
Kubernetes Cluster Lifecycle		
Provisioning	R/A	I
Upgrades/Patching	R/A	I
Workload migration	R/A	C
Backup and recovery	R/A	C
Application Workloads		
Deployment	I	R
Life cycle management	I	R
Deletion/Decommission	I	R
Application high availability (cross-region)	I	R
Resources Management		
Node scaling	R/A	I
Pod scaling	I	R
Pod resources	I	R
Namespace resources	C/I	R
DR Exercise		
Platform disaster recovery	R/A	C
Application disaster recovery	I	R/A
Networking		
Egress/ingress	R	I
Application FARs	I	R
Observability		
Platform monitoring	R/A	I
Application monitoring	C/I	R
Platform alerting	R/A	I
Application alerting	C/I	R
Security		
Image hardening	C	R/A
Pod security standards	R/A	I
Platform vulnerabilities	R/A	I
Application vulnerabilities	I	R/A
Kubernetes RBAC	R/A	I
Cost monitoring and optimization		
Bin-packing	R/A	I
Application optimization	C/I	R/A
Node resource optimization	R/A	I
Definitions¶
Role	Description
Responsible (R)	The person or role responsible for doing the work to complete the task.
Accountable (A)	The person or role ultimately answerable for the correct and thorough completion of the task.
Consulted (C)	People or roles consulted for input, feedback, or expertise before completing the task.
Informed (I)	People or roles that need to be informed of the task's progress or results.
On-Prem Environment¶
The only approved pattern to onboard to the on-prem clusters is Kafka Connect using the Runway template.

Architecture Overview¶
KPaaS Architecture Overview¶
overview

Application Deployment using Runway¶
deployment

KPaaS Components¶
components

Roadmap¶
The KPaaS Roadmap is always subject to change. For the latest, you can view active issues here.

Q2 2024¶
Enable KEDA for Webapps with ServiceBus trigger
PCI Clusters to use standardized automation and bootstrap
Cost optimization through right-sizing and bin-packing
Migration of observability solution from Datadog to Grafana Cloud
Improve security posture for applications
Migration of AKS clusters to use Azure CNI Overlay Network
Enhancement of platform resilience via load testing and disaster recovery testing
Q3 2024¶
Long-running Conductor pattern
Increased observability maturity in Grafana
January 23, 2026
Previous
Runway Ecosystem
Next
Change Management

